Tetracyclines are antibiotics used to treat a variety
of bacterial infections, including acne,
skin infections and others.
Although Tetracyclines don't directly kill the bacteria,
they prevent it from dividing and spreading.
This allows the bacteria to die
and the body's immune system to beat the infection.
Tetracyclines work within the bacteria
by binding to a portion of the bacteria's internal structure
which prevents essential proteins from binding to it
and reproduction is blocked.
In addition, Tetracycline alters the cell membrane
and causes it to leak by weakening the bacteria cell wall.
Our cell structures are different from those of bacteria.
So Tetracycline will not harm our cells
in the same way as the bacterial cells.